Spring FrameWork:


GitHub Link : https://github.com/eazybytes/spring


What is Spring :

1) The Spring Framework is a mature , powerful and highly flexible framework focused on building web app in java.

2) The Spring Framework is a comprehensive and widely-used framework for building Java-based enterprise applications. It provides infrastructure support at the application level, allowing developers to focus on building business logic rather than worrying about lower-level details like configuration, transaction management, or security.

----------------------------------

Java Editions :

1) Standard Edition : which will have all Core java classes , interfaces like object class collections, API , JDBC, exception handling.

2) Mobile Edition : Java M

3) Enterprise Edition (with the name Java EE or name starts from J2. and later on it changed to java , Bali and the now the name is "Jakarta" which is Jakartha Enterprise Edition) : Web Applications ( contains all the advanced concepts like servlets Jsps Ejbs, JMS JPS , which is used for persistent framework javaserver faces, which is JSF and all web servies related Jax-ws Jaxb WebSockets.) which can build web applications that will accept a request and send a response from an servlet container.

But the proble with the enterprise edition is that it is super complex and it expects a lot from a developer in terms of configurations , n terms of defining the dependencies and in terms of writing the extra boilerplate code. So due to that , Complexities in nature Spring framework came as an alternate to it.


For now , Spring is an Framework that build based upon the enterprise edition. , so it's not a competition to the enterprise edition framework because spring can't exist without enterprise edition features like basic java linraries , servlets .

-------------------------------

Spring Core:

Spring Core is the heart of entire spring. It contains some base frameworl classes , principles and mechanisms.

+> Spring MVC , Spring Data , Spring Boot , Spring Cloud , Spring Security , 
Spring AOP.

The Entire Spring Framework and other projects of Spring are developed on the top of the Spring Core.

Spring Core Contains following Important components,

1) Inversion of Control (IoC)
2) Dependency Injection (DI)
3) Beans
4) Context 
5) SpEL (Spring Expression Language)
6) IoC Container